Drug	Drug Class or Action	Phenotype	Dosage Information	Category	Interpretation	Notes	References
Azathioprine/ Mercaptopurine/ Thioguanine	"Thiopurines, immunosuppressants"	TPMT Intermediate metabolizer	Decrease dosage of thiopurines	ATYPICAL	This result indicates that the patient carries one normal function and one no function copy of TPMT. Patients with this genotype typically require decreased doses of thiopurines.	"Thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) inactivates the thiopurine prodrugs (azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, and thioguanine), reducing their conversion to active, and toxic, thioguanine nucleotide (TGN) metabolites. Individuals who inherit two nonfunctional TPMT alleles are at 100% risk for life-threatening myelosuppression, due to high TGNs, if they receive chronic therapy with conventional doses of MP (or azathioprine). Despite having higher TGNs than wild-type homozygotes, only ~30-60% of patients who are heterozygous for TPMT are unable to tolerate full doses of MP or azathioprine (Relling 2019 PMID: 30447069). Additional information can be found at https://www.pharmgkb.org/gene/PA356/prescribingInfo."	Relling 2019 PMID: 30447069
Azathioprine/ Mercaptopurine/ Thioguanine	"Thiopurines, immunosuppressants"	TPMT Poor metabolizer	Greatly decrease dosage of thiopurines or consider alternative drug	ATYPICAL	"This result indicates that the patient carries two no function copies of TPMT. Patients with this genotype typically require greatly decreased doses of thiopurines or should consider alternative drugs, as they may experience life-threatening myelosuppression with standard doses."	"Thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) inactivates the thiopurine prodrugs (azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, and thioguanine), reducing their conversion to active, and toxic, thioguanine nucleotide (TGN) metabolites. Individuals who inherit two nonfunctional TPMT alleles are at 100% risk for life-threatening myelosuppression, due to high TGNs, if they receive chronic therapy with conventional doses of MP (or azathioprine). Despite having higher TGNs than wild-type homozygotes, only ~30-60% of patients who are heterozygous for TPMT are unable to tolerate full doses of MP or azathioprine (Relling 2019 PMID: 30447069). Additional information can be found at https://www.pharmgkb.org/gene/PA356/prescribingInfo."	Relling 2019 PMID: 30447069
Azathioprine/ Mercaptopurine/ Thioguanine	"Thiopurines, immunosuppressants"	TPMT Normal metabolizer	Standard dosage of thiopurines	STANDARD			
Azathioprine/ Mercaptopurine/ Thioguanine	"Thiopurines, immunosuppressants"	TPMT Intermediate metabolizer or Poor metabolizer	Decrease dosage of thiopurines or consider alternative drug	ATYPICAL	"This test cannot distinguish between TPMT *1/*3A (intermediate metabolizer) and *3B/*3C (poor metabolizer), however *3B/*3C is rare. Phenotypic testing is available to distinguish between these alleles. Intermediate metabolizers carry one normal function and one no function copy of TPMT, and typically require decreased doses of thiopurines. Poor metabolizers carry two no function copies of TPMT, and typically require greatly decreased doses of thiopurines or should consider alternative drugs, as they may experience life-threatening myelosuppression with standard doses."	"Thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) inactivates the thiopurine prodrugs (azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, and thioguanine), reducing their conversion to active, and toxic, thioguanine nucleotide (TGN) metabolites. Individuals who inherit two nonfunctional TPMT alleles are at 100% risk for life-threatening myelosuppression, due to high TGNs, if they receive chronic therapy with conventional doses of MP (or azathioprine). Despite having higher TGNs than wild-type homozygotes, only ~30-60% of patients who are heterozygous for TPMT are unable to tolerate full doses of MP or azathioprine (Relling 2019 PMID: 30447069). Additional information can be found at https://www.pharmgkb.org/gene/PA356/prescribingInfo."	Relling 2019 PMID: 30447069
